retro revivals were all the rage these
days so it only seemed logical that
singer would show up on the money try I
mean bandwagon and take their mascot
back to his classic gameplay style Sonic
the Hedgehog for episode 1 is basically
two levels of Sonic wanted to give it a
homing attack and an HD look the story
picks up after Sonic 3 & Knuckles
tired of Sonic getting in his way Eggman
decides to focus all of his efforts on
just getting rid of the troublesome
Hedgehog plain simple effective that's
all we really need it from a classic
Sonic style story in terms of gameplay
and controls not a whole lot has changed
get to the goal post at the end a giant
ring appears to be kept 50 or more rings
jump out before Sonic loses interest to
go to the bonus stage collect the
hundred rings to get an extra life have
at least one ring to make your enemy
contact doesn't kill you
controls are pretty much the same as in
Sonic games that came before it and
Eggman is still the fastest thing alive
the only new addition is the homing
attack and let's face it it's not new
because it works just like it does in
any other Sonic game they can give Sonic
level air boost nothing game-breaking
just a little extra push but when I hear
it in this game and sounds like a storm
the power-ups that were in Sonic wanting
to return and work just like they used
to with no new power-ups or elemental
shields guess those are exclusive to
Angel Island hopefully just for now
there's a total of four zones for three
acts and a boss fight by itself followed
by the final zone each zone also has its
own slightly different music track
giving them a little diversity if
there's almost looked familiar
well it's not deja vu they have an
identical look and feel to two zones
from Sonic 1 & 2 from Sonic 2 splash
hill is Green Hill Casino street is
Casino Night Plus labyrinth is labyrinth
and man gear is metropolis even the
enemies return to help capture the
feeling of those levels interesting
sidenote
the slicers are no longer a big deal
they've been slowed down so you can
attack them before they can attack you
I'd like to think of it as sweet
vengeance but they're so pathetic I
don't get the satisfaction of killing
them I almost take pity on them almost
some zones are clearly easier than
others Oh have you perform certain tasks
Splash Hill zone is typical platforming
with vines minion and zip liners Casino
Street has a row of carts to run on as
well as a platform across and easily
being able to get a lot of lives lost
labyrinth as you balance on boulders go
into a minecart travel underwater and
carry a torch to light the way activate
platforms and light dynamite sticks to
clear your path and Matt gear has you
running on gears getting pushed by steam
vents and running away from a wall
that's trying to make a hedgehog pancake
after clearing through all three acts
you'll face off against Eggman much like
the past games he's no threat even if
you can't stand the homing attack after
clearing the four zones you'll go to the
final zone when you fight all the
previous Eggman fights from this game
then the final boss I won't show you
spoilers well let's just say you've seen
it before but it's got some new tricks
that you'll have to learn to a board and
once you catch on to it it'll never be a
threat again even after all this time he
still hasn't made a machine yet that's a
threat to Sonic
how sad as mentioned earlier if you go
into 50 or more rings by the end of an
act and giant ring appears to take you
to a bonus stage jump in and you'll go
to what resembles the bonus stage from
the first Sonic game except now there's
a time limit bars that prevent you from
entering the less you have enough rings
and you control the tilt of the stage if
you're playing on the weak then you can
turn on the motion controls and tilt the
Wiimote until the stage it works better
than you think it would but using the
d-pad is still the better option the
goal is to get to the Chaos Emerald
without touching the red circles and
before time runs out once you get it you
can't enter the bonus stage from all
over you got one so no going back and
playing the first stage seven times to
get all seven emeralds for
you yet they still made a slightly easy
since you can retire the bonus stage if
you're having trouble once you get all
seven Chaos Emeralds go to any stage
collect 50 rings and press one for yes
and he still plays like he used to
higher jumps faster speed and
invincibility but you can still die by
filing a defense and getting crushed and
it drains your ring counsel once you
read 2-0 that's it personally I wasn't
expecting them to change that because if
they did it would have made it easier
than it already is
when I first heard it was called episode
1 I was wondering if there was a
subtitle for it after hearing that some
quote-unquote real fans complained that
because sonic wasn't using the old look
that it would fail I wanted to give it a
subtitle episode 1 the fans are a menace
after playing through the game I wanted
to change the subtitle to episode 1 just
give us your money the game shouldn't
take you any longer than and I want to
have to beat and maybe an extra hour to
get all seven Chaos Emeralds and that's
it pretty sure right 16 years and all
you can really get out of it is maybe
two and a half hours that is not worth
of the way this game had nor the 1500
ree points to download to add insult to
injury the game is ludicrously easy
short and easy are not the best thing
for our game that cost more than it
should share most of the stages are
worth 3 playing again except for almost
all of the Lost Live Earth acts and this
part will stop new players in their
tracks
here's a hint like the last torch first
wait then like the others there are also
a few things I just had to comment on
regarding the old schoolfield no not the
homing attack I'm happy with it
I'm talking about when you run up and
down slopes like this curving into a
ball doesn't get you any higher it
actually gets you lower to get higher
stay in your running animation and when
you spin - off with something you pretty
much lose all of your speed these aren't
that big of a deal but they feel like
unnecessary changes to me and it
would've been better if they kept at the
same feel just like Mega Man 9 and 10
did with the NES games and they had to
recreate that from scratch
personally I don't care for the music in
the game that much some tracks do stay
stuck in my head like mad gear in the
final zone but most of it is forgettable
and I'd rather have actual 16-bit music
or even better orchestrated music Owens
splash Hill zone it's memorable
but I'd rather forget it finally
leaderboards I've never liked
leaderboards because no matter how good
you are someone comes along and hacks
the game to give them an impossible to
beat score and the server's never fix it
not that this is the games fault but I
just had to bring it up because it will
happen and you know it
simply put sonic the hedghog for episode
1 is just four stages from the Genesis
games given HD graphics and a homing
attack
hopefully episode 2 gives us more stages
the elemental shields a better challenge
and worth the money even that they show
you a small clue from his secret ending
as to what will be in the second episode
fans can already look forward to it also
if you really want this game I recommend
getting it on a console that has a hard
drive even with tons of room on my SD
card I still had to put it on my wheeze
memory system to play it and this was
the first time I had to rearrange my
memory to get a game on there once again
not the games fault that's Nintendo's
fault and I will admit that short easy
but not a broken game and it has its
moments $15 for download seems like a
lot for this but at least it's not
terrible and playing with Super Sonic
and having multiple paths does help a
little here's hoping episode 2 will be
better a 3 out of 5 nothing special but
nothing terrible either
Oh